One work by this author uses printing, gunpowder, and the compass as symbols of personal ambition, national ambition, and the ambition of the human race to extend its grasp. This thinker described three forms of false learning as "delicate", "contentious", and "fantastical" in categorizing the "distempers" that impede academic progress. This thinker imagined a utopian university called Salomon's House, and he likened received systems of philosophy to stage plays that misrepresent the world, and thus labeled them "idols of the theatre". This author of The New Atlantis established the doctrine of inductive, empirical methodology. For 10 points, name this 17th-century English philosopher who wrote Novum Organum and spearheaded the Scientific Revolution.
One character in this play ignores news of his wife's fever, while repeating the line "Poor fellow!" in response to reports of the gluttony of a character who drank four beakers of port. In one scene in this play, a man misses while trying to slap his impudent maid, who keeps interrupting him to protest his plans to marry off his daughter against her will. By hiding in a closet, Damis overhears the title character of this play attempt to seduce Elmire, the wife of his host. The title character plans to use Argas' casket full of incriminating documents to blackmail the brother of Cléante, until a messenger from Louis XIV arrives to have him arrested instead. For 10 points, name this play in which Orgon's family hosts the title religious hypocrite, a play by Molière.
Calculating a Racah W-coefficient requires knowledge of six parameters corresponding to this quantity. Another set of coefficients arising from this quantity relate reduced matrix elements to the spherical tensor. The individual components of the operator corresponding to this quantity commute with its square, but not with each other. That square of the operator corresponding to this quantity has as its eigenfunctions the spherical harmonics. This quantity's conservation follows by Noether's theorem from rotational invariance, and implies Kepler's second law. In the case of a particle undergoing uniform circular motion, this quantity's magnitude equals m times v times r. For 10 points, name this quantity, equal to moment of inertia times angular velocity.
Coinage similarities caused this state's name to be appended to an unrelated Taxilan kingdom that produced stone palettes known as "toilet trays" and was founded by Gondophares I. The concubine Thermusa became queen of this state, but sparked a revolt by a disgusted populace after murdering her husband and marrying her son Phraataces. This state allied Quintus Labienus but was defeated at Amanus Pass and the Cilician Gates under Pacorus I. Surena won its greatest victory by pinning legionaries to their own shields, using composite bows to fire backwards from horseback, a tactic known as this empire's namesake "shot." It was ruled by the Arsacid line and supplanted by Ardashir's Sassanids. For 10 points, name this Persian empire that defeated Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae.
A dog, sack, and pitcher stand in the center foreground of this painter's version of Christ Healing the Blind. The central back panel of one of this artist's triptychs show pilgrims traveling to St. Catherine's Monastery as part of its depiction of Mount Sinai. The Christian Knight ascends to heaven in the front panel of that work by him, the Modena Triptych. He showed St. John the Evangelist standing in front of seven nudes who writhe in front of shimmering yellow and green cloths, in one work. In another painting by him, St. Stephen and St. Augustine bear the golden-armored corpse of the nobleman Don Gonzalo Ruíz, a native of Toledo. For 10 points, name this Spanish painter of The Opening of the Fifth Seal and The Burial of Count Orgaz, whose name reflects his Cretan origin.
This thinker labeled the transfer of religious authority from a visionary prophet to an established priesthood as the "routinization of charisma." This thinker defined power as the probability that an actor will be able to carry out his own will, despite resistance. For years, the only English translation of this thinker's major work was an infamously error-riddled one by Talcott Parsons. This thinker wrote that states are defined by their "monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force." In another work, this author of Economy and Society suggested that the Lutheran concept of the "calling" inspired people to work hard to pursue wealth. For 10 points, name this German sociologist, the author of Politics as a Vocation and The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism.
A short tract about this conflict notes that he who sees its results "and still dreams of a federated republic, belongs in a house for the insane." Doge Andrea Gritti refused to back a defeated leader after this conflict. One side in this conflict demanded the end to the Todfall inheritance tax as part of the Twelve Articles. This conflict prompted a notable essay comparing it to the 1848 revolutions by Friedrich Engels, and saw its primary leader executed in Mühlhausen after losing the Battle of Frankenhausen. The Swabian League put down this event, which was famously condemned in a tract about "murderous, thieving hordes" by Martin Luther. For 10 points, name this 1525 popular revolt led by men like Thomas Müntzer, that saw the oppressed lower class rise up in Germany.
He's not George Gershwin, but a cycle of this composer's music for piano and orchestra was popularly recorded in 1965 by Earl Wild and Jascha Horenstein. This composer included a C-sharp-minor theme for solo alto saxophone, accompanied by clarinet arpeggios, in the Non Allegro first movement of a piece whose three movements were originally titled "Noon", "Twilight", and "Midnight". He used an earlier composer's D-minor version of "La Folia" as the basis for his Variations on a Theme of Corelli. This composer of a set of Symphonic Dances inverted the theme in the D-flat-major eighteenth variation of a piece based on another composer's 24th caprice. For 10 points, name this Russian composer of Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini.
A serine/threonine kinase named for its role in the synthesis of this compound is inhibited by lithium in one treatment for bipolar disorder. This compound is synthesized by iteratively attaching subunits containing uridine diphosphate and then cleaving the UDP. It's not associated with the Wnt signaling pathway, but this molecule's production is regulated by the kinases CK-II and GSK-3. This compound's namesake phosphorylase depends on pyridoxal phosphate. Insulin triggers the synthesis of this compound, which is basically a more highly-branched version of the amylopectin found in plant starch. For 10 points, name this polysaccharide form of glucose stored in skeletal muscles and the liver.
In a work by this author, a picture of a tree proclaims "I don't want to be a tree, I want to be its meaning". This author created a character who saves 4,213 cigarette butts discarded by the woman he loves. One of this author's characters blinds himself with a plume needle, so that he can paint only from his memory, without using his eyes. Another of this author's protagonists falls in love with a salesgirl who turns out to be a distant cousin, while he is shopping for a handbag for his fiancée Sibel. That protagonist collects mundane objects belonging to Füsun in this author's The Museum of Innocence. He wrote a novel about the murdered miniaturist Elegant Effendi. For 10 points, name this author of My Name is Red and Snow, a Nobel Prize-winning Turkish novelist.
One book by this thinker suggests that Dilthey successfully distinguished the practical and technical "cognitive interests" of the human vs. natural sciences, but fell prey to positivism. Another work by him divides rationality into aesthetic, normative, and cognitive-instrumental forms. This author of Knowledge and Human Interests suggested that the replacement of a representational culture with a Öffentlichkeit culture was fostered by institutions like Masonic lodges and coffeehouses. He attempted to synthesize the paradigms of lifeworld and system in a work that uses linguistic structures to analyze human actions. For 10 points, name this German philosopher, who wrote The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere and The Theory of Communicative Action.
One character in this story remarks that a man is sometimes "afraid to be alone with himself", shortly after Squire Saunders forgets to invite someone to his table for Sunday supper. The author of this story appended a note at its end claiming that it was based on a Joseph Moody from Maine, who as a youth had killed his friend. The protagonist of this story is frightened by his own reflection in a wine glass, and drops it during a wedding, shortly before he is abandoned by his fiancée Elizabeth. This story's protagonist dies after proclaiming that he sees the title object "on every visage", and began the story by frightening his parishioners by delivering a sermon on "secret sin". For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story about a dark cloth worn by Reverend Hooper.
This colony's practice of deciding local elections by who could bribe more people with hard liquor was championed by James Woods. Its final governor won a battle prompted by his seizure of a store of gunpowder at Kemp's Landing. This colony gained hunting grounds in the Treaty of Camp Charlotte after its militia defeated Chief Cornstalk at the battle of Point Pleasant. The comte de Grasse arrived at a siege in this colony with 24 ships from the West Indies, forcing Charles O'Hara to surrender. This colony fought the Shawnee in a war named for Lord Dunmore, who fled it after the Battle of Norfolk. For 10 points, name this state where Charles Cornwallis surrendered to native son George Washington at the Battle of Yorktown.
To aid in performing this process, Smalltalk and Racket make use of ephemerons. A lazy algorithm developed for this process by Lins works most efficiently when side effects are rare. One package for this purpose in C was developed by Boehm, Demers, and Weiser. A new heap is created and live objects moved to it in Cheney's algorithm for this process. All methods for performing it on the Java virtual machine are stop-the-world. This process can make use of a finalizer. The tracing that precedes this process is often used instead of reference counting, and can be accomplished by Dijkstra's three-color or mark-sweep techniques. For 10 points, name this automatic type of memory management which frees up space taken by objects that are no longer used.
One work by this thinker invokes Faulkner's line about Pickett's charge to consider competing social ownership of civil war historiography. Another work by this man charts the history of a certain concept from Belinda Royall in colonial Massachusetts in the section "We Inherit Our Ample Patrimony, and continually mentions Clyde Ross, who joined the Contract Buyers League to combat predatory mortgage lending. The best-known book by this man recounts a trip to France that provides a cultural and physical contrast to the American "heritage" of destroying the body of a certain population. That book, addressed to this man's son, built on his award-winning Atlantic "The Case for Reparations." For 10 points, name this African American intellectual and author of Between the World and Me.
They're not vacuum tubes, but if the frequency-gap product is too large in these devices, the resulting electron cascade can destroy them via the multipactor effect. Sommerfeld sometimes lends his name to one of these devices invented by George Goubau. The effective index method is not as good as the Marcatili method for approximating behavior inside these structures. The natural one formed by the lower boundary of the ionosphere and Earth's surface can explain Schumann resonance. Solving Maxwell's equations with appropriate boundary conditions yields hybrid, TM, TE, but not TEM modes in the one-conductor rectangular form of these devices. For 10 points, identify these structures like optical fibers that force linear propagation of electromagnetic radiation.
A group of Ostrogoths who did not follow Theodoric into Italy moved to this region and founded its city of Mangup, which the Byzantines named Dory. The Spartocid dynasty ruled the Kingdom of the Bosporus from this region's city of Panticapaeum. A native state in this region was established by Haci I Giray and ruled from Bakshisarai. Vladimir I was baptized after taking a city in this region, Chersonesus. A Mongol siege of Genoa's colony in this region, Caffa, may have introduced the Black Death to Europe. A war named for this region included the battles of Taganrog and Sinope. For 10 points, name this home to a population of Tatars, a Black Sea peninsula that includes Sevastopol and has been annexed by Russian autocrats Catherine the Great and Vladimir Putin.
In his first appearance, this figure's "womanly hair" is compared to that of Nisaba, the goddess of corn. After only ever drinking milk from animals, this figure's first encounter with alcohol ends with him drinking seven full goblets of wine. This figure finds that he can no longer chase gazelle after spending six days and seven nights sleeping with a harlot. This figure's arrival is presaged by dreams of a falling meteorite and of an axe that won't budge. After this figure's death, his companion seeks out of a plant to renew his youth at the bottom of the ocean on the advice of the flood survivor Utnapishtim. This man is cursed to die after he aids his more famous companion in defeating the Guardian of the Cedar Forest and the Bull of Heaven. For 10 points, name this Mesopotamian wild man, the bosomcompanion of Gilgamesh.
A prologue in this play begins by describing a time when the "wide vessel of the universe" was full of "creeping murmur and the poring dark." In his only soliloquy, the title character of this play mulls on the word "ceremony", asking "What kind of god art thou [?]". The opening prologue to this play begins with a chorus invoking "a Muse of fire, that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention". Falstaff's death is described in this play, whose title character woos Catherine of Valois, and delivers a speech that begins: "Once more unto the breach, dear friends". Another speech in this play includes the line: "We few, we happy few, we band of brothers". For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play featuring the St. Crispin's Day speech, in which Prince Hal has become king.
This instrument plays the only extended solo in the overture to Verdi's Luisa Miller. This is the solo instrument in a piece that opens with the movement "The Perilous Shore". This instrument introduces the main theme to "The Pines of Janiculum" from Respighi's The Pines of Rome. This instrument has a long solo at the beginning of the Adagio from Rachmaninoff's Second Symphony, and it first states the Shaker theme in Copland's Appalachian Spring. John Adams' Gnarly Buttons is for this instrument. Heinrich Baermann, a virtuoso on this instrument, was the dedicatee of Carl Maria von Weber's two concertos for it. The basset horn is a variant of, for 10 points, what single-reed woodwind instrument, which plays a notable glissando at the opening of Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue?